index.md, before:

---
# Feel free to add content and custom Front Matter to this file.
# To modify the layout, see https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#overriding-theme-defaults

layout: home
title: Smash 64 Resources
---

# Featured Guides
<div class="box-holder">

<a href="guides/controllers.html">
  <div>
    <!-- <img src="/guides/img/controllers/OG.png" width="80" margin="auto"><br /> -->
    <img src="/guides/img/controllers/OG.png"><br />
    <h2>Controller Guide</h2>
    <p>A complete guide to the common controller types in used in competitive Smash.</p>
  </div>
</a> 

<a href="guides/characters.html">
<div>
<img src="/guides/img/characters_square.png"><br />
<h2>Character Resource Guide</h2>
<p>List of useful tutorials, combo videos, players, and vods for each character in Smash 64.</p>
</div>
</a>

<a href="guides/learningdi.html">
  <div>
    <img src="/guides/img/DI_logo.png"><br />
    <h2>DI Guide</h2>
    <p>A guide to DI techniques and how to practice and implement them.</p>
  </div>
</a>
</div>
<br />

---
<br>
## Gameplay Guides
![](/guides/img/youtube-logo.png){:width="20" }
[How Kero Wins with Yoshi](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-HX8ZV2Q-WQ) - Tips and tricks with Yoshi, focusing on the Pika matchup.

![](/guides/img/youtube-logo.png){:width="20" }
[Stage Control is Cool](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PdBcnbjQI6I) - A lecture sort of thing about the basics of stage control and positioning.

![](/guides/img/newspaper.png){:width="20" }
[Matchup Guide: Pika vs Fox](guides/pikafox.html) - An outline of both sides of the Pikachu vs Fox matchup

![](/guides/img/newspaper.png){:width="20" }
[Buffered Pivot Utilts](guides/utilts.html) - A picture guide to a technique to perform pivot utilts. Especially helpful for derek stick users, or others that have problems accidentally jumping while trying to pivot utilt.

![](/guides/img/youtube-logo.png){:width="20" }
[Some notes on Pika vs Fox](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SPX9cvfIagY) - Self explanatory, some assorted matchup notes from a session in the mu.

![](/guides/img/youtube-logo.png){:width="20" }
Vod reviews of [Breakthrough](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yu_XWZHSY8U) and [Elated](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sgAYQMdDEtE) - Two vod reviews of pika players. The breakthrough one is Part 2 because my analysis in Part 1 wasn't worth posting.

![](/guides/img/youtube-logo.png){:width="20" }
[Wario's edgeguards on falcon](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GgoUOY6lYec) - Collection of all of Wario's edgeguards from g3 top 8.

## Game Mechanics

![](/guides/img/newspaper.png){:width="20" }
[Pika Up-b Fun Facts](guides/pikaupb.html) - Some information about how controller range affects Pika's up-b distance and angle.

![](/guides/img/youtube-logo.png){:width="20" }
[SSB64 Mechanics for Melee Players](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qvINv6xfhUw) - Well titled, I think. A somewhat ramble-y lecture.

![](/guides/img/youtube-logo.png){:width="20" }
[Answering Frame Questions with BizHawk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x-JaJkRfCDs) - Simple demo of how to use BizHawk (a TAS emulator) to answer frame data questions.

![](/guides/img/newspaper.png){:width="20" }
[DI Mechanics Reference](guides/dimechanics.html) - In-depth guide to the mechanics of DI in 64. Discusses the importance of range, must-read for anyone working on controller mods.

![](/guides/img/newspaper.png){:width="20" }
[Testing Range on Emulator](guides/rangetest.html) - How to test your controller's range on emulator


## Tools and Resources

[SSB Frame Data](https://nickthename.github.io/ssbframedata) - Hitbox display website. Sidebar has links to various other game data stuff. Collaboration between myself, Shears, heyitsjames, and others. J version is [here](https://nickthename.github.io/ssbframedata/J).

[Gameshark Code List](guides/gscodes.html) - Small list of useful gameshark codes for use on emulator or Everdrive. Mostly aimed at practice.

[Hijikisoft Mirror](https://nickthename.github.io/holyweb.pgw.jp/hijikisoft/index.html) - Archive of Japanese developer HIJIKI's now defunct website. Contains various tools, such as a combo counter, frame data display, and 12CB tracker.
<aside id="home-sidebar">
  <div class="sidebar-inner">
  <h2>Around the web</h2>
  <hr />
  <br />
  <div class="sidebar-line"><img class="sidebar-image" src="/guides/img/smash64online-logo.svg" width=30><a href="https://smash64.online/">Smash64 Online</a><br /></div>
  <div class="sidebar-line"><img class="sidebar-image" src="/guides/img/ssbl-logo.png" width=30><a href="https://supersmashbros.org/">SSB League</a><br /></div>
  <div class="sidebar-line"><img class="sidebar-image" src="/guides/img/ssbwiki-logo.webp" width=30><a href="https://ssbwiki.com/">Smash Wiki</a><br /></div>
  <div class="sidebar-line"><img class="sidebar-image" src="/guides/img/discord-logo.png" width=30><a href="https://discord.gg/ssb64">SSB64 Discord</a><br /></div>
  <div class="sidebar-line"><img class="sidebar-image" src="/guides/img/facebook-logo.png" width=30><a href="https://www.facebook.com/groups/Smash64Community/">NA 64 Facebook</a></div><br />
  <br />
  <div class="sidebar-line"><img class="sidebar-image" src="/guides/img/twitter-logo.svg" width=30><a href="https://twitter.com/The64Story">@The64Story</a></div>
  <div class="sidebar-line"><img class="sidebar-image" src="/guides/img/twitter-logo.svg" width=30><a href="https://twitter.com/64_League">@64_League</a></div>
  <div class="sidebar-line"><img class="sidebar-image" src="/guides/img/twitter-logo.svg" width=30><a href="https://twitter.com/SSB64UPR">@SSB64UPR</a></div>
  </div>
</aside>

Commit message:

Spelling fixes and armor break table link

index.md, after:

---
# Feel free to add content and custom Front Matter to this file.
# To modify the layout, see https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#overriding-theme-defaults

layout: home
title: Smash 64 Resources
---

# Featured Guides
<div class="box-holder">

<a href="guides/controllers.html">
  <div>
    <!-- <img src="/guides/img/controllers/OG.png" width="80" margin="auto"><br /> -->
    <img src="/guides/img/controllers/OG.png"><br />
    <h2>Controller Guide</h2>
    <p>A complete guide to the common controller types in used in competitive Smash.</p>
  </div>
</a> 

<a href="guides/characters.html">
<div>
<img src="/guides/img/characters_square.png"><br />
<h2>Character Resource Guide</h2>
<p>List of useful tutorials, combo videos, players, and vods for each character in Smash 64.</p>
</div>
</a>

<a href="guides/learningdi.html">
  <div>
    <img src="/guides/img/DI_logo.png"><br />
    <h2>DI Guide</h2>
    <p>A guide to DI techniques and how to practice and implement them.</p>
  </div>
</a>
</div>
<br />

---
<br>
## Gameplay Guides
![](/guides/img/youtube-logo.png){:width="20" }
[How Kero Wins with Yoshi](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-HX8ZV2Q-WQ) - Tips and tricks with Yoshi, focusing on the Pika matchup.

![](/guides/img/youtube-logo.png){:width="20" }
[Stage Control is Cool](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PdBcnbjQI6I) - A lecture sort of thing about the basics of stage control and positioning.

![](/guides/img/newspaper.png){:width="20" }
[Matchup Guide: Pika vs Fox](guides/pikafox.html) - An outline of both sides of the Pikachu vs Fox matchup

![](/guides/img/newspaper.png){:width="20" }
[Buffered Pivot Utilts](guides/utilts.html) - A picture guide to a technique to perform pivot utilts. Especially helpful for derek stick users, or others that have problems accidentally jumping while trying to pivot utilt.

![](/guides/img/youtube-logo.png){:width="20" }
[Some notes on Pika vs Fox](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SPX9cvfIagY) - Self explanatory, some assorted matchup notes from a session in the mu.

![](/guides/img/youtube-logo.png){:width="20" }
Vod reviews of [Breakthrough](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yu_XWZHSY8U) and [Elated](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sgAYQMdDEtE) - Two vod reviews of pika players. The breakthrough one is Part 2 because my analysis in Part 1 wasn't worth posting.

![](/guides/img/youtube-logo.png){:width="20" }
[Wario's edgeguards on falcon](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GgoUOY6lYec) - Collection of all of Wario's edgeguards from g3 top 8.

## Game Mechanics

![](/guides/img/newspaper.png){:width="20" }
[Pika Up-b Fun Facts](guides/pikaupb.html) - Some information about how controller range affects Pika's up-b distance and angle.

![](/guides/img/youtube-logo.png){:width="20" }
[SSB64 Mechanics for Melee Players](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qvINv6xfhUw) - Well titled, I think. A somewhat ramble-y lecture.

![](/guides/img/youtube-logo.png){:width="20" }
[Answering Frame Questions with BizHawk](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x-JaJkRfCDs) - Simple demo of how to use BizHawk (a TAS emulator) to answer frame data questions.

![](/guides/img/newspaper.png){:width="20" }
[DI Mechanics Reference](guides/dimechanics.html) - In-depth guide to the mechanics of DI in 64. Discusses the importance of range, must-read for anyone working on controller mods.

![](/guides/img/newspaper.png){:width="20" }
[Testing Range on Emulator](guides/rangetest.html) - How to test your controller's range on emulator


## Tools and Resources

[SSB Frame Data](https://nickthename.github.io/ssbframedata) - Hitbox display website. Sidebar has links to various other game data stuff. Collaboration between myself, Shears, heyitsjames, and others. J version is [here](https://nickthename.github.io/ssbframedata/J).

[Yoshi Armor Break Table](/ssbframedata/Armor/Armor.html) - Table showing at what percent every move in the game will break Yoshi's double-jump armor. See the [FAQ](/FAQ.html#how-do-yoshis-armor-and-parry-work-whats-the-difference) for more information on how armor works. Rehosted from Bloodpeach's website.

[Gameshark Code List](guides/gscodes.html) - Small list of useful gameshark codes for use on emulator or Everdrive. Mostly aimed at practice.

[Hijikisoft Mirror](https://nickthename.github.io/holyweb.pgw.jp/hijikisoft/index.html) - Archive of Japanese developer HIJIKI's now defunct website. Contains various tools, such as a combo counter, frame data display, and 12CB tracker.
<aside id="home-sidebar">
  <div class="sidebar-inner">
  <h2>Around the web</h2>
  <hr />
  <br />
  <div class="sidebar-line"><img class="sidebar-image" src="/guides/img/smash64online-logo.svg" width=30><a href="https://smash64.online/">Smash64 Online</a><br /></div>
  <div class="sidebar-line"><img class="sidebar-image" src="/guides/img/ssbl-logo.png" width=30><a href="https://supersmashbros.org/">SSB League</a><br /></div>
  <div class="sidebar-line"><img class="sidebar-image" src="/guides/img/ssbwiki-logo.webp" width=30><a href="https://ssbwiki.com/">Smash Wiki</a><br /></div>
  <div class="sidebar-line"><img class="sidebar-image" src="/guides/img/discord-logo.png" width=30><a href="https://discord.gg/ssb64">SSB64 Discord</a><br /></div>
  <div class="sidebar-line"><img class="sidebar-image" src="/guides/img/facebook-logo.png" width=30><a href="https://www.facebook.com/groups/Smash64Community/">NA 64 Facebook</a></div><br />
  <br />
  <div class="sidebar-line"><img class="sidebar-image" src="/guides/img/twitter-logo.svg" width=30><a href="https://twitter.com/The64Story">@The64Story</a></div>
  <div class="sidebar-line"><img class="sidebar-image" src="/guides/img/twitter-logo.svg" width=30><a href="https://twitter.com/64_League">@64_League</a></div>
  <div class="sidebar-line"><img class="sidebar-image" src="/guides/img/twitter-logo.svg" width=30><a href="https://twitter.com/SSB64UPR">@SSB64UPR</a></div>
  </div>
</aside>
